>> Ifill: AID IS URGENTLY NEEDED
IN THE TYPHOON RAVAGED
PHILIPPINES AMID RISING DESPAIR
OVER THE SLOW PACE OF RELIEF.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD THIS TUESDAY: THE
FIRST OF FOUR PERSONAL STORIES
HIGHLIGHTING SETBACKS AND
SUCCESSES OF THE AFFORDABLE CARE
ACT.
TONIGHT, ONE WOMAN WHO'S LOSING
HER CURRENT INSURANCE.
>> NO ONE TOLD ME, YOU KNOW,
PURCHASE AT YOUR RISK, BECAUSE
THIS POLICY DOES NOT COMPLY WITH
THE ACA AND IT MAY BE CANCELED.
>> Ifill: AND WE SIT DOWN WITH
FORMER VICE PRESIDENT DICK
CHENEY.
HIS NEW MEMOIR DETAILS HIS
DECADES-LONG BATTLE WITH HEART
DISEASE.
>> I WAS ABLE TO LIVE FOR 35
YEARS AND SLOWLY REACTED AND
VERY NORMAL.
SOME PEOPLE SAY ABNORMAL BUT
ABLE TO FUNCTION AT A HIGH LEVEL
INSPITE OF THE DISEASE.
>> Ifill: THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: THE PRESIDENT OF
THE PHILIPPINES ANNOUNCED TODAY
THE TYPHOON DEATH TOLL MAY END
UP BETWEEN 2,000 AND 2,500, FAR
BELOW EARLIER ESTIMATES.
BUT IT WAS LITTLE COMFORT TO
THOUSANDS OF SURVIVORS,
ESPECIALLY IN TACLOBAN, THE CITY
VIRTUALLY DESTROYED BY THE
STORM.
THEY GREW EVER MORE DESPERATE,
MOBBING RELIEF PLANES AND
PLEADING FOR HELP.
WE HAVE TWO REPORTS FROM
INDEPENDENT TELEVISION NEWS,
BEGINNING WITH ANGUS WALKER,
WHO'S IN TACLOBAN.
>> Reporter: IN THE RUINS AND
THE RAIN, SURVIVORS ARE NOW
TRYING TO REBUILD THEIR LIVES,
BUT THE MISERY GOES ON.
"WHAT'S HAPPENING TO MY COUNTRY?
WE HAVE NO FOOD.
HELP IS NOT COMING," SHE SAYS.
IN THE SEARCH FOR FOOD AND
WATER, LOOTING IS OFTEN THE ONLY
OPTION.
HE PEEKS OVER THE WALL OF A
WAREHOUSE, WARY OF THE GUARDS.
EVEN THE YOUNGEST ARE SNATCHING
WHAT THEY CAN; OTHERS ARE ABLE
TO TAKE MORE.
HEAVY DOWNPOURS TODAY, RAISING
THE RISK OF WATERBORNE DISEASE.
>> MY HEART IS BROKEN, TEARED
APART.
>> Reporter: IN HIS MAKESHIFT
SHELTER, 61-YEAR-OLD EDGARO BELO
IS SICK FROM DRINKING
CONTAMINATED WATER AND STILL
TRAUMATIZED.
>> I HAVE NOT SEEN PEOPLE LIKE
THAT.
CHILDREN.
I WAS SURROUNDED BY BUGS.
DECAYING BUGS.
I WAS SURROUNDED BY BODIES.
DECAYING BODIES.
I DON'T KNOW HOW I HAVE
SURVIVED.
>> Reporter: IT'S CALLED BLISS,
THE NAME OF A HOUSING PROJECT
BUILT FOR PEOPLE WHO'D LOST
THEIR HOMES IN PAST TYPHOONS.
THIS TIME, IT WAS NO SAFE HAVEN.
>> BLISS IS MADE UP OF A MAZE OF
NARROW ALLEYWAYS, AND WHEN THE
TYPHOON STRUCK, THEY FILLED WITH
WATER WITHIN SECONDS TO ABOVE-
ROOF HEIGHT.
AND YET MOST SURVIVED, QUICKLY
CLIMBING HIGH ENOUGH TO ESCAPE,
CLEARLY STILL HAPPY TO BE ALIVE.
BUT LIVING IS HARD-- LONG QUEUES
FOR EMPTY SHELVES, MEDICINES ARE
RATIONED.
SO, AS EVENING APPROACHES,
BARRICADES ARE MANNED, WARNINGS
TO LOOTERS.
THE ARMY PATROLS WHILE THE
PEOPLE OF TACLOBAN FEND FOR
THEMSELVES.
>> Woodruff: JOHN SPARKS OF
INDEPENDE TELNTEVISION NEWS
JOINED ANXIOUS FERRY PASSENGERS
TRAVELLING TO ANOTHER HARD-HIT
AREA TODAY.
THEIR FIVE-HOUR JOURNEY BEGAN IN
CEBU CITY.
>> Reporter: THERE WASN'T MUCH
INTEREST TODAY IN THE BOAT TO
ORMOC CITY, ALTHOUGH SEVERAL
DOZEN CLIMBED ON BOARD WITH
BUNDLES OF FOOD OR CLOTHING.
THEY WEREN'T COMMUTERS OR
TRADERS, AND THIS WASN'T A
ROUTINE TRIP.
FOR MANY, THE 11:45 FERRY WAS A
VOYAGE MADE IN HOPE.
THEY WERE LOOKING FOR LOVED ONES
IN A REGION DECIMATED BY LAST
FRIDAY'S TYPHOON.
STILL, THE FERRY CAPTAIN TOLD ME
THAT ORMOC CITY WAS IN A
TERRIBLE STATE.
>> ( translated ): THEY ARE IN A
REALLY BAD SITUATION.
THERE'S NO FOOD, NO WATER, NO
ELECTRICITY.
IT IS REALLY TERRIBLE THERE.
>> Reporter: FOR RELATIVES
DESPERATE FOR NEWS, THE FERRY IS
THEIR ONLY OPTION, BUT IT IS AN
ANXIOUS JOURNEY.
WHAT'S GOING THROUGH YOUR MIND
RIGHT NOW?
>> MY FAMILY.
THEY ARE NEAR CATALOBAN.
MY ONE AND ONLY SISTER IS LIVING
THERE.
AND I CANNOT EVEN SLEEP FOR A
FEW DAYS IN MANILA, THINKING
THAT MY SISTER IS ONE OF THE
VICTIMS.
>> Reporter: HAVE YOU BEEN ABLE
TO SPEAK WITH HER?
>> I HAVEN'T BEEN ABLE TO
COMMUNICATE WITH HER.
>> Reporter: ONE GROUP HAD A
DIFFERENT PURPOSE: TO PROVIDE
AID AND ASSISTANCE TO A BADLY
AFFECTED COMMUNITY CALLED
TACLOBAN, BUT THEY WERE WORRIED.
>> WE'VE HEARD THAT VEHICLES
COMING FROM-- ANY VEHICLES GOING
INTO TACLOBAN ARE BEING... THERE
ARE ROAD BLOCKS.
PEOPLE ARE HIJACKING THE
VEHICLES AND GETTING THE RELIEF
GOODS.
>> Reporter: BUT YOU'RE STILL
GOING TO GO ANYWAY?
>> YES, BUT WE'RE GOING TO GO
ANYWAY.
>> WE NEED TO GO.
>> Reporter: AFTER FIVE HOURS AT
SEA, ORMOC CAME INTO VIEW.
WE COULD SEE AND SMELL THE CITY.
ACRID SMOKE FILLED THE AIR AS
RESIDENTS BURNT PILES OF DEBRIS.
THE STORM HAD RIPPED OFF ROOFS
FROM BUILDINGS IN THE PORT.
WHILE FURTHER INLAND, ENTIRE
COMMUNITIES HAD BEEN DEMOLISHED.
THE FIRST FOOD AID ARRIVED
TODAY, FIVE DAYS AFTER THE
TYPHOON.
WE HAVEN'T GOT VERY FAR.
THE ROAD INTO THE CITY IS
BLOCKED.
BUT WHAT WE HAVE SEEN HAS
SHOCKED US.
THIS CITY OF 250,000, A
COMMUNITY OF CHURCHES AND HOMES
AND BUSINESSES, HAS CLEARLY BEEN
BROUGHT TO ITS KNEES.
THERE ARE FEW IF ANY BASIC
SERVICES HERE.
THERE'S NO ELECTRICITY.
RESIDENTS LIVE IN THE DARK;
SOME DO THEIR WASHING NOW BY
CANDLELIGHT.
IN THE DARKNESS OVER THERE,
THERE'S A LONG QUEUE OF PEOPLE
WAITING FOR BREAD.
PRESENTLY, THERE ARE ONLY TWO
PLACES TO BUY BREAD IN THIS CITY
OF A QUARTER-MILLION, AND THIS
IS ONE OF THEM.
TONIGHT, THEY WERE SELLING
ROLLS.
CUSTOMERS QUEUED UP FOR HOURS TO
GET SOME.
IN THIS TIME OF NEED, SOME HAVE
STEPPED FORWARD.
A HOTEL OWNER WITH ACCESS TO A
GENERATOR IS OFFERING THIS
ESSENTIAL SERVICE: A MOBILE
PHONE CHARGE.
WHY IS IT SO IMPORTANT TO HAVE A
WORKING PHONE?
>> YES, BECAUSE SOME OF OUR
PHONES HAVE ACCESS TO
TELEVISION.
BECAUSE OUR TV SETS ARE ALL WET
AND DESTROYED.
SO, WE NEED THIS KIND OF PHONE
WHERE WE CAN WATCH NATIONAL
NEWS.
BECAUSE THERE'S NO RELIEF GOODS
YET COMING, SO WE'RE LOOKING FOR
SOME INFORMATION FROM THE
NATIONAL GOVERNMENT.
>> Reporter: ORMOC IS ONE OF
HUNDREDS OF COMMUNITIES THAT'S
BEEN LEFT TO COPE ON ITS OWN.
BUT FOR THE MOMENT, PEOPLE HERE
ARE MAKING THE BEST OF A BAD
HAND.
>> Woodruff: WE'LL HAVE MORE
AFTER THE NEWS SUMMARY.
U.S. AIRWAYS AND AMERICAN
AIRLINES HAVE CLEARED THE LAST
MAJOR HURDLE TO MERGING INTO A
SINGLE CARRIER.
THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT APPROVED
THE DEAL TODAY.
IT CALLS FOR THE TWO AIRLINES TO
ELIMINATE 56 FLIGHTS A DAY OUT
OF WASHINGTON AND NEW YORK.
THEY WILL ALSO TRANSFER SOME
GATES AT OTHER MAJOR AIRPORTS TO
LOW-COST CARRIERS.
THE MOVES ARE MEANT TO PREVENT
THE MERGER FROM STIFLING
COMPETITION.
HEART EXPERTS ARE CALLING FOR
TWICE AS MANY AMERICANS TO
CONSIDER TAKING STATIN DRUGS
THAT CUT CHOLESTEROL.
THE AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION
AND THE AMERICAN COLLEGE OF
CARDIOLOGY ISSUED NEW GUIDELINES
TODAY ON HEART ATTACKS AND
STROKES.
USING A NEW FORMULA, SOME 33
MILLION AMERICANS-- ONE-THIRD OF
ALL ADULTS-- MEET THE THRESHOLD
TO CONSIDER TAKING A STATIN.
PRESIDENT OBAMA FACED NEW
PRESSURE TODAY OVER
CANCELLATIONS OF MILLIONS OF
HEALTH INSURANCE POLICIES.
FORMER PRESIDENT BILL CLINTON
TOLD THE WEB SITE ozzy.com THAT
MR. OBAMA NEEDS TO KEEP HIS
PROMISE NOT TO LET THAT HAPPEN.
>> I PERSONALLY BELIEVE EVEN IF
IT TAKES IT TO THE LAW, THE
PRESIDENT SHOULD HONOR THE
COMMITMENT THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT MADE TO THOSE PEOPLE.
>> Woodruff: MR. OBAMA HAS
APOLOGIZED FOR THE PROBLEM BUT
HAS NOT SAID HE'S WILLING TO
AMEND THE LAW.
AS FOR THE CLINTON COMMENTS,
WHITE HOUSE SPOKESMAN JAY CARNEY
HAD THIS RESPONSE.
>> I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT TO
NOTE THAT PRESIDENT CLINTON IN
THAT INTERVIEW ALSO SAID, AND I
QUOTE, THE BIG LESSON IS THAT WE
ARE BETTER OFF WITH THIS LAW
THAN WITHOUT IT.
THE PRESIDENT, AS YOU KNOW, HAS
PLEDGED TO ASK HIS
AT POTENTIAL ACTIONS THAT COULD
BE TAKEN TO ADDRESS THIS
PROBLEM.
BECAUSE HIS FOCUS IS ON MAKING
SURE THE PEOPLE GET QUALITY AND
AFFORDABLE HEALTH INSURANCE.
>> Woodruff: THE NUMBER TWO
DEMOCRAT IN THE U.S. HOUSE,
MARYLAND CONGRESSMAN STENY
HOYER, ALSO JOINED THE CALL
TODAY TO LET PEOPLE KEEP THEIR
EXISTING POLICIES.
MEANWHILE, THE "NEW YORK TIMES"
REPORTED THAT MAJOR INSURANCE
COMPANIES ARE ASKING
TO SIGN PEOPLE UP DIRECTLY AND
BYPASS THE TROUBLED
healthcare.gov WEB SITE.
HAWAII IS ABOUT TO BECOME THE
16th STATE TO LEGALIZE GAY
MARRIAGE.
THE STATE SENATE MOVED TODAY TO
GIVE FINAL APPROVAL TO SAME-SEX
UNIONS.
THE GOVERNOR INDICATED HE'D SIGN
THE BILL INTO LAW.
A SIMILAR MEASURE WON APPROVAL
LAST WEEK IN THE ILLINOIS
LEGISLATURE.
THE U.N. HUMAN RIGHTS COUNCIL
ADDED NEW MEMBERS TODAY, AND
HUMAN RIGHTS ACTIVISTS WERE NOT
HAPPY ABOUT THE RESULTS.
CHINA, RUSSIA, SAUDI ARABIA AND
CUBA ALL WON SEATS DESPITE
PROTESTS THAT THEY ROUTINELY
ABUSE HUMAN RIGHTS AND RESTRICT
BASIC FREEDOMS.
THE U.N. GENERAL ASSEMBLY VOTED
ON THE NEW MEMBERS.
AN INTERNATIONAL COMMITTEE OF
ARCHITECTS HAS CONFIRMED IT:
ONE WORLD TRADE CENTER IN NEW
YORK WL BEIL THE TALLEST
BUILDING IN THE U.S. WHEN IT'S
COMPLETED NEXT YEAR.
IT'S BEING BUILT AT THE SITE OF
THE 9/11 ATTACKS AND WILL TOP
OUT AT 1,776 FEET.
BUT A DISPUTE AROSE OVER THE
NEEDLE ON TOP OF THE BUILDING
AND WHETHER IT'S TO BE COUNTED
TOWARD THAT HEIGHT.
THE ANNOUNCEMENT CAME TODAY IN
CHICAGO.
>> IN THE END WE REACHED A
CONSENSUS.
IT WAS CLOSE TO UNANIMOUS.
IT WAS NOT A HUNDRED PERCENT
UNANIMOUS BUT IT WAS CLOSE TO
UNANIMOUS.
AND SO THE DEBATE, AND THIS WAS
A FIVE-HOUR MEETING.
SO THE DEBATE WAS PRETTY HEATED.
>> Woodruff: CHICAGO'S WILLIS
TOWER, FORMERLY KNOWN AS THE
SEARS TOWER, HAD BEEN THE
COUNTRY'S TALLEST BUILDING AT
1,451 FEET.
VIOLENCE ERUPTED IN TWO
DEVELOPING COUNTRIES TODAY AS
GARMENT WORKERS PRESSED FOR
BETTER PAY AND WORKING
CONDITIONS.
IN CAMBODIA, ONE WOMAN WAS SHOT
DEAD WHEN RIOT POLICE USED TEAR
GAS AND WATER CANNON ALONG WITH
LIVE AMMUNITION.
DEMONSTRATORS THREW ROCKS AND
SET SOME CARS ON FIRE.
IN BANGLADESH, THOUSANDS OF
PROTESTERS BATTLED POLICE IN TWO
INDUSTRIAL TOWNS, LEAVING DOZENS
OF PEOPLE INJURED.
MORE THAN 200 FACTORIES WERE
CLOSED.
IN CHINA, LEADERS OF THE RULING
COMMUNIST PARTY VOWED TO LET
MARKETS PLAY A "DECISIVE ROLE"
IN ALLOCATING RESOURCES.
THE POLICY STATEMENT WAS
ANNOUNCED AT THE END OF A FOUR-
DAY SUMMIT IN BEIJING.
THE GATHERING FOCUSED ON REFORMS
TO DRIVE ECONOMIC GROWTH FOR THE
NEXT DECADE.
THE LEADERS STOPPED SHORT OF
ORDERING DRAMATIC REFORMS THAT
WOULD END THE DOMINANCE OF
STATE-CONTROLLED INDUSTRIES.
PRESIDENT OBAMA NOMINATED A TOP
TREASURY DEPARTMENT OFFICIAL,
TIMOTHY MASSAD, TO RUN THE
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING
COMMISSION TODAY.
THE C.F.T.C. REGULATES THE
FUTURES AND OPTIONS MARKET, BUT
IT'S ONE OF THE SMALLEST AND
MOST THINLY FUNDED U.S.
AGENCIES.
THE PRESIDENT URGED CONGRESS
TODAY TO FULLY FUND THE
COMMISSION.
ON WALL STREET, THE DOW JONES
INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE LOST 32
POINTS TODAY TO CLOSE AT 15,750.
THE NASDAQ ROSE A FRACTION TO
CLOSE JUST SHORT OF 3,920.
>> Woodruff: STILL AHEAD ON THE
NEWSHOUR: THE SCIENCE BEHIND
SUPERSTORMS; PERSONAL STORIES
FROM HEALTH CARE REFORM; "60
MINUTES'" CASE OF MISTAKEN
REPORTING; AND FORMER VICE
PRESIDENT CHENEY SPEAKS ABOUT
HIS HEART.
>> Ifill: SO, IS THERE A
CONNECTION BETWEEN THE NEARLY
200 MILE AN HOUR WINDS THAT
FLATTENED SO MANY FILIPINO
COMMUNITIES AND THE WARMING
PLANET?
THAT'S THE SUBJECT OF OUR FIRST
FEATURE SEGMENT TONIGHT.
THE SHEER DEADLY POWER OF THE
PHILIPPINES TYPHOON HAS CAST A
FRESH SPOTLIGHT ON THE QUESTION:
ARE STORMS GETTING STRONGER AS
THE PLANET GETS WARMER?
AT ITS PEAK, TYPHOON HAIYAN WAS
HUNDREDS OF MILES WIDE, WITH
SUSTAINED WINDS OF 190 TO 195
MILES AN HOUR.
THAT RIVALED THE STRONGEST STORM
ON RECORD, HURRICANE CAMILLE,
WHICH STRUCK THE U.S. GULF COAST
IN 1969.
IN THE PHILIPPINES, THE
TYPHOON'S WINDS DROVE AN OCEAN
SURGE TWO STORIES HIGH,
DESTROYING NEARLY EVERYTHING IN
ITS PATH.
>> CLIMATE JUSTICE NOW.
>> Ifill: THE SCOPE OF THE
DEVASTATION WAS BECOMING CLEAR
AS INTERNATIONAL CLIMATE TALKS
OPENED IN POLAND YESTERDAY.
THE FILIPINO REPRESENTATIVE
DELIVERED AN EMOTIONAL APPEAL.
>> I SPEAK FOR MY DELEGATION,
BUT I... I SPEAK FOR THE
COUNTLESS PEOPLE WHO WILL NO
LONGER BE ABLE TO SPEAK FOR
THEMSELVES AFTER PERISHING FROM
THE STORM.
I SPEAK ALSO FOR THOSE WHO HAVE
BEEN ORPHANED BY THE STORM.
I SPEAK FOR THOSE, THE PEOPLE
NOW RACING AGAINST TIME TO SAVE
SURVIVORS AND ALLEVIATE THE
SUFFERING OF THE PEOPLE
AFFECTED.
WE CAN TAKE DRASTIC ACTION NOW
TO ENSURE THAT WE PREVENT A
FUTURE WHERE SUPER TYPHOONS
BECOME A WAY OF LIFE.
>> Ifill: THE OFFICIAL SAID HE
WILL FAST UNTIL THE CONFERENCE
REACHES A "MEANINGFUL OUTCOME."
THE PHILIPPINES IS NO STRANGER
TO POWERFUL STORMS; THE
ARCHIPELAGO OF MORE THAN 7,000
ISLANDS SEES SOME 20 TYPHOONS A
YEAR.
SCIENTISTS HESITATE TO PIN ANY
SINGLE EVENT-- FROM STORMS TO
DROUGHTS-- ON GLOBAL WARMING,
BUT THEY WARN GREENHOUSE GAS
EMISSIONS COULD CAUSE EXTREME
WEATHER-- LIKE TYPHOON HAIYAN,
SUPERSTORM SANDY IN 2012 AND
HURRICANE KATRINA IN 2005-- TO
BECOME MORE INTENSE.
FOR MORE ON WHAT WE LEARNED
ABOUT THIS TYPHOON AND CONCERNS
HEARD IN WARSAW AND ELSEWHERE,
WE TURN TO TWO WHO WATCH THIS
CLOSELY.
KEVIN TRENBERTH IS A CLIMATE
SCIENTIST AT THE GOVERNMENT'S
NATIONAL CENTER FOR ATMOSPHERIC
RESEARCH.
AND JEFF MASTERS IS DIRECTOR OF
METEOROLOGY AT WEATHER
UNDERGROUND, A COMMERCIAL ONLINE
WEATHER SERVICE.
WELCOME TO YOU BOTH.
I WANT TO START WITH YOU KEVIN
TRENBERTH.
MAYBE YOU CAN HELP PEOPLE
UNDERSTAND THE BASICS.
CYCLONE, HURRICANE, TYPHOON.
WHAT'S THE DIFFERENCE IF ANY.
>> JUST THE REGION THEY OCCUR.
THEY'RE REALLY THE SAME
PHENOMENON.
THE TYPHOON IS IN THE PACIFIC
NORTHWEST, THE CYCLONE IS SORT
OF AUSTRALIA AND INDIA, THE BAY
OF BENGAL AND HURRICANES ARE IN
THE ATLANTIC.
>> Ifill:  THINK OF THIS ONE,
HAIYAN, WHAT HOW IS IT WORSE AND
WHATAUSE CS IT TO BE THIS
INTENSE?
>> WE DON'T OFTEN SEE STORMS GET
THIS STRONG.
I MEAN THE TOP WINDS OF
190-195 MILES PER HOUR HAVE ONLY
BEEN FOUR OR FIVE STORMS OVER
THE OCEAN REACH THAT INTENSITY.
WHEN IT HIT LAND AT 190-195 WE
NEVER SEEN THAT BEFORE.
THEY EXTREAK THE ENERGY OUT OF
THE OCEAN.
THEY CONVERT THE HEAT TO THE
ENERGY OF THEIR WINDS.
THE WATERS TO THE EAST OF THE
PHILIPPINES HAVE THE LARGEST
AREA OF DEEP WARM WATERS THAN
ANY PLACE ON THE PLANET.
>> Ifill:  SO KEVIN TRENBERTH
THIS IS UNIQUE, THIS KIND OF
FORCE, THIS KIND OF IMPACT TO
THIS AREA OF THE WORLD.
>> THAT'S CERTAINLY THE WARMEST
AREA IN THE GLOBAL OCEAN.
AND AL SO IT'S BEEN WARMING UP
AT THE GREATEST RATE IN THE
GLOBAL OCEAN IN RECENT TIMES.
>> Ifill:  SO WHY IF THIS IS
TRUE AND THE PHILIPPINES HAVE
SUSTAINED SEVERAL OF THESE EVERY
YEAR A FEW EVERY YEAR AT LEAST
WHY DIDN'T THEY SEE THIS COMING,
WHY WAS THIS SUCH A SURPRISE?
>> WELL, THERE HAVE CERTAINLY
BEEN OTHER BIG STORMS THIS YEAR.
THERE WAS ONE IN JAPAN IN MID
OCTOBER AND ALSO IN THE BAY OF
BENGAL THAT WENT INTO INDIA.
THEY WERE ALSO CATEGORY FIVE
STORMS.
AND THIS ONE IS ONE OF SEVERAL
THAT HAVE OCCURRED THIS YEAR.
THIS ONE JUST HAPPENED TO MAKE
LAND FALL AT FULL INTENSITY.
>> Ifill:  JEFF MASTERS, HOW
DO WE TRACK THEM, HOW DO WE SEE
THEM COMING?
>> WE TRACK THEM VIA SATELLITES
IN THE PACIFIC OCEAN.
UNFORTUNATELY WE DON'T HAVE
HURRICANE HUNTER AIRCRAFT
ANYMORE IN THE PACIFIC SO WE
HAVE TO RELY ON KIND OF LOWER
QUALITY SORTS OF SATELLITE
ESTIMATES.
BUT THESE ESTIMATES ARE PRETTY
UNIVERSAL IN SHOWING THAT THIS
STORM WAS ONE OF THE STRONGEST
OF ALL TIME.
>> Ifill:  I WANT TO ASK YOU
BOTH THIS AND IT'S A QUESTION
EVERYBODY'S ASKING TODAY, WHICH
IS WHAT IS DRIVING THIS?
IS CLIMATE CHANGE AS WE SAW THE
PHILIPPINO REPRESENTATIVE TALK
IN WARSAW IS THIS BEING DRIVEN
BY CLIMATE CHANGE BY WARMING OF
THE PLANET STARTING WITH YOU
JEFF MASTERS.
>> WE DON'T HAVE GOOD ENOUGH TIR
ENOUGH TO TELL TO TYPHOONS AND
HURRICANES.
THESE STORMS HAVE A LOT OF
NATURAL UPS AND DOWNS AND WE
HAVEN'T BEEN OBSERVING THEM VERY
WELL TO BE ABLE TO TELL FOR SURE
AND THEY'VE BEEN CHANGING OR
NOT.
THE PREDICTIONS FOR THE FUTURE
ARE PRETTY SOLID.
AS YOU WARM UP THE OCEANS YOU
WILL TEND TO MAKE THE STRONGEST
STORMS STRONGER.
>> Ifill:  HOW ABOUT THAT
KEVIN, THE OCEANS ARE WARMING UP
AND MAKING THIS HAPPEN.
>> WELL FIRSTLY, THE GLOBAL
OCEAN, WE'VE HAD MEASUREMENTS OF
AL TIM TERES FROM SPACE MAKING
MEASUREMENTS OF THE GLOBAL OCEAN
SINCE LATE 1992.
SINCE THEN THE GLOBAL OCEAN SEA
LEVEL HAS GONE UP BY TWO
AND-A-HALF INCHES.
IN THE VICINITY OF THE
PHILIPPINES, IT'S GONE UP BY
ABOUT EIGHT INCHES JUST TO THE
EAST OF THERE.
PART OF THAT IS BECAUSE OF
CHANGES IN THE WINDS IN THAT
AREA WHICH HAS PILED THE WATER
UP IN THAT REGION.
BUT IT ALSO MEANS THAT THE WARM
WATER IS EXCEPTIONALLY DEEP.
SO THE SEA TEMPERATURES ARE
HIGHER BY OVER DEGREE FAHRENHEIT
ON A GLOBAL BASIS BECAUSE OF
GLOBAL WARMING, BECAUSE OF HUMAN
INFLUENCES.
GOING ALONG WITH THAT THE AIR
AND ATMOSPHERE IS WARMER AND
MOISTER AND THAT'S WHAT FUELS
THESE STORMS.
THE ENVIRONMENT THAT ALL OF
THESE STORMS ARE OCCURRING IN IS
SIMPLY DIFFERENT THAN IT USED TO
BE BECAUSE OF HUMAN ACTIVITIES.
>> Ifill:  JEFF MASTERS IS A
HUMAN ACTIVITIES IN THAT REGION
OR IS IT HUMAN ACTIVITIES
GLOBALLY THAT YOU SEE THAT ARE
DRIVING THE SEA LEVELS UP IN
THAT AREA?
>> IT'S HUMAN ACTIVITIES
GLOBALLY.
UNFORTUNATELY THE PEOPLE WHO ARE
LEAST TO BLAME FOR EMITTING
CARBON DIOXIDE INTO THE
ATMOSPHERE ARE THE ONES THAT ARE
SUFFERING THE WORST.
IT'S THE PEOPLE IN AFRICA, THE
PHILIPPINES AND POORER COUNTRIES
ARE REALLY FEELING THE IMPACTS
ON THESE SORTS OF EXTREME EVENTS
WE'VE SEEN LATELY.
>> Ifill:  LET ME ASK YOU BOTH
FOR HOPEFULLY A  HOPEFUL WAY OF
BUTTING THIS UP STARTING WITH
YOU KEVIN, WHAT COULD PATH
SHOULD WE BE TAKING.
>> THIS IS ON THE CARDS.
THE PROJECTIONS WE WILL HAVE
BIGGER MORE STORM ALTHOUGH THERE
MAY BE FEWER STORMS OVERALL.
BUT THEN IT'S VERY HAPHAZARD AS
TO JUST WHICH AREA EXPERIENCES
THESE IN ANY PARTICULAR YEAR OR
IN ANY PARTICULAR LOCATION.
BUT THEN YOU NEED TO BE
PREPARED.
IN THE U.S., ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT HAPPENS IS IMPROVING
BUILDING CODES, AND THIS HAS
BEEN A PROBLEM IN THE DEVELOPING
COUNTRIES IN PARTICULAR LIKE THE
PHILIPPINES.
THERE ARE CERTAIN THINGS THAT
YOU CAN DO IN THAT REGARD BUT
THE PHILIPPINES IS CERTAINLY IN
AN AREA WHERE THEY ALWAYS HAVE
EXPERIENCED TYPHOONS.
AND YOU KNOW THE INFRASTRUCTURE
HAS NOT BEEN THERE.
>> Ifill:  JEFF MASTERS.
>> KEVIN COVERED HALF THE STORY.
WE NEED TO ADAPT TO THESE
CHANGES.
DO SMART THINGS ABOUT BUILDING
ON COASTS.
BUT THE OTHER PART OF THE COIN
IS WE NEED TO PUT LESS CARBON
DIOXIDE INTO THE ATMOSPHERE.
WE NEED TO STOP PUTTING THESE
HEAT TRAPPING GASES IN THAT ARE
INCREASING THE TEMPERATURE OF
THE PLANET AND CONTRIBUTING TO
THESE SORT OF VIOLENT CHANGES TO
OUR WEATHER WE'VE SEEN IN RECENT
YARYTS.
>> Ifill:  JEFF MASTERS OF
WEATHER UNDERGROUND AND KEVIN
TRENBERTH FOR ATMOSPHERIC
RESEARCH.
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> Woodruff: NOW, PART TWO IN
OUR SERIES FEATURING REACTIONS
TO THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT AS
THE DETAILS ARE SLOWLY
REGISTERING WITH PEOPLE.
TODAY'S REMARKS BY FORMER
PRESIDENT CLINTON UNDERSCORED
HIS CONCERN ABOUT THE POTENTIAL
POLITICAL FALLOUT.
SOME AMERICANS ARE ANGRY ABOUT
RECEIVING CANCELLATION NOTICES
FROM THEIR CURRENT INSURANCE
COMPANIES.
CASE IN POINT: DEBORAH PERSICO,
A SELF-EMPLOYED CRIMINAL DEFENSE
LAWYER IN WASHINGTON, D.C., WHO
FREQUENTLY DEFENDS THE INDIGENT.
HERE IS SOME OF WHAT SHE TOLD
US.
>> BEGINNING SOME TIME IN
OCTOBER, I ACTUALLY HAD JUST
GOTTEN MY RATE RENEWAL FOR MY
CURRENT PLAN.
MY PREMIUMS HAD GONE UP TO $297
A MONTH.
THE DEDUCTIBLE OF $2,700 WAS
STILL THE SAME, THE OUT-OF-
POCKET MAXIMUM EXPENSES OF
$3,200 WAS STILL THE SAME, BUT
MY PREMIUM HAD JUST GONE UP A
LITTLE BIT.
AND A COUPLE WEEKS LATER, I GOT
ANOTHER LETTER FROM CARE FIRST
TELLING ME THAT THAT POLICY DID
NOT QUALIFY UNDER THE AFFORDABLE
CARE ACT AND THAT BY NEXT
OCTOBER AT THE TIME OF MY
RENEWAL, THAT POLICY WAS GOING
TO BE CANCELED.
I NEARLY FELL OFF THE CHAIR
BECAUSE FOR YEARS ALL I HAD
HEARD FROM PRESIDENT OBAMA: "IF
YOU LIKE YOUR POLICY, YOU CAN
KEEP YOUR POLICY; IF YOU LIKE
YOUR DOCTORS, YOU CAN KEEP YOUR
DOCTORS."
I HAVE EXCELLENT COVERAGE WITH
THE PLAN I NOW HAVE.
I HAVE HOSPITALIZATION, DOCTOR
CARE, AND LABS, AND BLOOD TESTS,
PHYSICAL THERAPY, AMBULANCE,
HOSPITALIZATION.
I MEAN, EVERYTHING IS INCLUDED
IN THIS PLAN THAT I FEEL I WOULD
NEED.
IT IS A P.P.O., WHICH I REALLY
WANTED TO BE IN, AND I'M
PERFECTLY SATISFIED WITH THIS
PLAN.
SO, ONCE I RCEIVEED THIS LETTER
FROM CARE FIRST, I WAS
COMPLETELY SHOCKED.
I COULD NOT FIGURE OUT WHAT WAS
HAPPENING, AND THEN I STARTED
THE PROCESS OF TRYING TO FIND
OUT WHAT THE NEW AVAILABLE
POLICIES WERE.
WHAT AT I FOUND WAS THAT GETTING
A P.P.O. H.S.A. POLICY WITH CARE
FIRST ON THE BRONZE LEVEL--
WHICH IS NOT EVEN CLOSE TO
PLATINUM-- ON THE BRONZE LEVEL
IS GOING TO COST ME ABOUT $5,000
A YEAR MORE THAN WHAT I'M
ALREADY PAYING FOR HEALTH
INSURANCE.
IT'S BEEN A TOTAL STICKER SHOCK.
I'VE HAD SOME HEALTH ISSUES THIS
YEAR, AND I'VE HAD TO REDUCE
SOME OF MY WORKLOAD.
IT'S A REAL HARDSHIP RIGHT NOW.
MY HUSBAND IS 67 YEARS OLD, I'M
58; WE ARE DESPERATELY TRYING TO
SAVE FOR RETIREMENT.
AS I SAID, WE ARE BOTH SELF-
EMPLOYED, SO WE DON'T HAVE A
PENSION FROM SOME COMPANY.
AND $5,000 MORE A YEAR IS NOT
POCKET CHANGE.
YOU KNOW, IT'S REALLY GOING TO
AFFECT US.
AND NOW, IT MAKES NO DIFFERENCE
THAT WE TRIED TO CUT BACK ON
OTHER EXPENSES BECAUSE IT'S ALL
GOING TO BE ABSORBED BY THE NEW
HEALTH CARE POLICY.
THE REPRESENTATIVE TOLD ME TO
LOOK IN THE BOOKLET THAT THEY
HAD SENT ME, AND I LOOKED IN THE
BOOKLET.
AND IN THAT BOOKLET IS A LIST OF
SERVICES THAT THE A.C.A. COVERS.
WELL, I HAVE EVERY ONE OF THOSE
SERVICES EXCEPT MATERNITY
COVERAGE AND PEDIATRIC CARE.
NOW, I AM 58 YEARS OLD.
THE CHANCE OF ME HAVING A CHILD
AT THIS AGE IS ZERO, SO, YOU
KNOW, I ASK THE PRESIDENT WHY DO
I HAVE TO PAY AN ADDITIONAL
$5,000 A YEAR FOR MATERNITY
COVERAGE THAT I WILL NEVER EVER
NEED?
I VOTED FOR PRESIDENT OBAMA
TWICE AND I WAS TOTALLY
SUPPORTIVE OF THE IDEA THAT
EVERY PERSON SHOULD HAVE ACCESS
TO AFFORDABLE HEALTHCARE, BUT
I'D LIKE TO KNOW WHY 5% OF THE
POPULATION ARE HAVING THEIR
POLICIES CANCELED AND HAVING TO
PAY EXORBITANT RATES FOR A NEW
POLICY.
NO ONE TOLD ME.
IN NONE OF THE DOCUMENTS THAT
THEY SENT TO ME WAS THERE ANY
NOTATION IN THERE.
YOU KNOW, "PURCHASE AT YOUR OWN
RISK BECAUSE THIS POLICY DOES
NOT COMPLY WITH THE A.C.A. AND
IT MAY BE CANCELED."
SO, AS FAR AS I'M CONCERNED, THE
INSURANCE COMPANIES, THE
PRESIDENT AND CONGRESS ARE ALL
COMPLICIT IN THIS DISHONESTY.
>> Woodruff: FOR THE RECORD,
WE'VE REPEATEDLY INVITED TOP
OBAMA ADMINISTRATION OFFICIALS
ON PRSSUES, BUT SO FAR THEY HAVE
DECLINED.
WE REALIZE ALL OF THE PEOPLE
WE'RE PROFILING ARE SINGLE
ANECDOTES, SO WE TRY TO FILL OUT
THE BROADER PICTURE ON ALL THIS
WITH MARY AGNES CAREY OF KAISER
HEALTH NEWS.
IT'S AN EDITORIALLY INDEPENDENT
NEWS ORGANIZATION, AND IT
ORIGINALLY BROKE SOME OF THE
STORIES ON CANCELLED POLICIES.
MARY AGNUS CAREY, WELCOME BACK
TO THE NEWSHOUR.
WHY ARE PEOPLE HAVING THEIR
POLICIES CANCELED.
>> THE PROBLEM IS SOME OF THESE
PLANS DON'T MEET THE STANDARDS
OF THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT.
SHE MENTIONED TWO COVERAGES SHE
WANTED PART OF THE ESSENTIAL
FELT BENEFITS, MATERNITY AND
PEDIATRIC CARE.
THERE'S A STANDARD LIST OF
ESSENTIAL HEALTH BENEFITS THAT
MUST BE COVERED IN THESE PLANS.
THEY HAVE TO MEET CERTAIN
CO-PAYS AND DEDUCTIBLES AND IF
THEY DON'T THEY WON'T BE OFFERED
BY THE INSURER.
>> Woodruff:  WHEN SHE BOUGHT
THE POLICY THERE WAS AN
AWARENESS WHAT WAS GOING TO
HAPPEN TO THE LAW.
WHY IS SHE TOLD THIS POLICY.
>> THERE'S SOMETHING CALLED
GRANDFATHER STATUS THAT MANY OF
THESE POLICIES HAVE LOST WHEN
THE LAW WAS SIGNED IN MARCH
2010.
AS LONG AS PLANS DIDN'T CHANGE
SIGNIFICANTLY AND WHAT THEY
COVERED OR CO-PAYS OUT OF POCKET
DEDUCTIBLES AND SO ON THEY COULD
KEEP THEIR GRAM FATHER STATUS.
SOME PEOPLE HAVE BOUGHT THOSE
PLANS SINCE MARCH OF 2010.
SOME OF THESE PLANS HAVE LOST
THEIR GRANDFATHERING STATUS AND
SOME INSURERS HAVE DECIDED THEY
DON'T WANT TO SELL THESE
POLICIES ANYMORE.
INSURERS HAVE FREQUENTLY MADE
DECISIONS ONE POLICY ISN'T SOLD
FROM ONE YEAR TO THE NEXT SO
IT'S A COMBINED SET OF FACTORS
WHY SOME PEOPLE AREN'T GETTING
TO HOLD THEIR POLICIES.
>> Woodruff:  WHO DROPPED THE
BALL HERE.
DO WE KNOW FOR A FACT WHETHER IT
WAS THE INSURANCE COMPANY,
WHETHER IT WAS THE GOVERNMENT
NOT DISCLOSING MORE ABOUT THE
LAW?
WHAT HAPPENED.
>> IT'S A REAL MESSAGING PROBLEM
IN THE PARTY ADMINISTRATION.
WE HAVE HEARD REPEATEDLY IF YOU
LIKE YOUR PLAN YOU CAN KEEP IT,
IF YOU LIKE YOUR DOCTOR YOU CAN
KEEP IT.
WHEN THE LAW SAID PLANS COULD
STAY IN PLACE AS LONG AS
SIGNIFICANT CHANGES WEREN'T MADE
MAYBE THAT MESSAGE WAS TOO
COMPLEX TO RELATE TO PEOPLE BUT
IT CREATED A PROBLEM AND A
MISUNDERSTANDING.
THE PRESIDENT HIMSELF HAS
THAT THE ADMINISTRATION'S
FEELING IS THAT FOR THE
INDIVIDUAL MARKET A LOT OF THESE
POLICIES ARE SKIMPY, THEY DON'T
PROVIDE GOOD COVERAGE.
SHE IS OBVIOUSLY HAPPY WITH HER
COVERAGE AND SHE WANTS TO KEEP
IT.
>> Woodruff:  SHE DESCRIBED IT
AS A PLAN TATH COVERS EVERYTHING
SHE NEEDS AND EVEN MORE.
HOW WIDE SPREAD IS THIS PROBLEM.
>> THERE'S 14  MILLION IN THE
VALID MARKET, 5,000 WHO BUY
INSURANCE.
WE DON'T KNOW EXACTLY HOW MANY
PEOPLE ARE LOSING THEIR POLICIES
BUT THE ESTIMATES VARY FROM 2-4
MILLION.
AS MORE PEOPLE GET THESE NOTICES
COPY PULL BEGIN TO TRACK THESE
STATISTICS THIS NUMBER COULD
INCREASE.
>> Woodruff:  2-4 MILLION.
WHAT ARE THE ADMINISTRATION'S
OPTIONS.
WE REPORTED EARLIER FORMER
PRESIDENT CLINTON IS NOW SAYING
THE LAW NEEDS TO BE CHANGED, ARE
AMENDED.
YOU HAVE DEMOCRATIC MEMBERS OF
CONGRESS CALLING ON THE
ADMINISTRATION TO DO SOMETHING.
WHAT ARE THEIR OPTIONS AT THIS
POINT.
>> I DOUBT VERY MUCH THERE WILL
BE ANY BIPARTISAN CONSENSUS ON
CAPITOL HILL TO CHANGE ANY FACET
OF THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT.
THE PRESIDENT HAS ASKED HIS
STAFF TO LOOK FOR WAYS TO HELP
THESE FOLKS IN PARTICULAR
SOMEONE WHO HAS AN INDIVIDUAL
HEALTH POLICY, INDIVIDUAL MARKET
POLICY WHO MIGHT BE LOSING IT
BECAUSE THEY DON'T QUALIFY FOR
THE SUBSIDIES.
PERHAPS THEY COULD WORK OUT AN
AGREEMENT WITH THE HEALTH
INSURANCE INDUSTRY TO PROVIDE
SOME RELIEF.
YOU HAVE TO REMEMBER PEOPLE IN
THE INDIVIDUAL MARKETS HAVE
ALREADY PASSED THE MEDICAL UNDER
WOULD ITING THAT CAUSED SOME
PROBLEMS BEFORE.
THIS TENDS TO BE HEALTHIER
PEOPLE, THEY'RE GETTING HEALTH
INSURANCE NOW, YOU NEED THEM AS
HEALTH INSURANCE EXMANDS TO
BALANCE OUT THE RISK OF THE SIX
PEOPLE.
>> Woodruff:  IF YOU FIND
YOURSELF IN THIS FIX, WHAT CAN
YOU DO?
WHAT ARE YOUR OPTIONS?
>> IN THE NOTICE YOUR INSURER
SENDS TO YOU THEY NEED TO TELL
YOU WHAT THEY MIGHT QUALIFY FOR
DIFFERENT POLICIES FOR THAT
INSURER.
THAT'S ONE ROUTE.
ON HEALTHCARE.GOV THERE'S STILL
A BROWSING FUNCTION THAT DOES
WORK WHERE YOU CAN TYPE IN YOUR
ZIP CODE AND GET DIFFERENT FIND
OUT DIFFERENT PLANS THAT MIGHT
WORK FOR YOU.
YOU CAN CERTAINLY LOOK TO THOSE
PLANS TO SEE IF YOU CAN GET A
BETTER DEAL.
>> Woodruff:  SHE CLEARLY
IDENTIFIED ONE SHE SAYS ISOING G
TO COST HER $A 5,000 MORE A
YEAR.
>> THIS IS FRUSTRATING AND
CLEARLY NOT THE INTENT.
YOU HAVE TO REMEMBER A LOT OF
PEOPLE COULDN'T GET COVERAGE IF
THEY HAD BEEN SICK OR THEIR
COVERAGE WAS CANCELED OR THEY
WERE CHARGED HIGHER RISKS IF
THEY HAD BEEN SICK.
IT'S TO SPREAD THE RISK OUT AND
MAKE IT BETTER FROM PEOPLE BUT
AS WE FOUND OUT FROM DEBRA SOME
PEOPLE ARE HAVING A HARD TIME.
>> Woodruff:  WE'RE HEARING A
LOT ABOUT PROBLEMS WITH THE ACA,
THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT, MARY
AGNUS.
IS THERE A PART OF IT THAT'S
GOING WELL WE CAN TELL THE
PUBLIC ABOUT.
>> WELL THERE ARE MILLIONS OF
KIDS FOR EXAMPLE, THEY'RE ADULT
CHILDREN UP TO 26 WHO STAYED ON
THEIR PARENTS HEALTH PLAN, THERE
ARE PREVENTIVE SERVICES HAVE
BEEN OFFERED WITHOUT CO-PAYS OR
DEDUCTIBLES.
SENIORS HAVE GOTTEN HEALTH WITH
THEIR PRESCRIPTION DRUGS AND
LOOKING FORWARD THERE ARE
SUBSIDIES TO HELP PEOPLE PROVIDE
COVERAGE.
THERE'S EXPANSION OF MEDICAID TO
HELP PEOPLE UP TO $16,000 A YEAR
QUALIFY AND THERE ARE NO MORE
LIFETIME LIMITS OR ANNUAL CAPS.
>> Woodruff:  IN FACT IN
MEDICAID LOTS MORE PEOPLE ARE
SIGNING UP.
>> THAT'S BEEN THE CASE SO FAR
EXACTLY.
>> MARY AGNUS CAREY WITH KAISER
HEALTH NEWS.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: NOW, A MEDIA GIANT
APOLOGIZES FOR GETTING ITS FACTS
WRONG.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS THAT STORY.
>> TONIGHT, YOU WILL HEAR FOR
THE FIRST TIME FROM A SECURITY
OFFICER WHO WITNESSED THE
ATTACK.
>> Brown: THAT'S HOW "60
MINUTES" CORRESPONDENT LARA
LOGAN INTRODUCED HER OCTOBER
27th REPORT ABOUT THE ATTACK ON
THE U.S. CONSULATE IN BENGHAZI,
LIBYA.
THE ASSAULT ON SEPTEMBER 11,
2012, LEFT AMBASSADOR
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS AND THREE
OTHER AMERICANS DEAD.
THE WHITE HOUSE INITIALLY
PORTRAYED IT AS A PROTEST GONE
BAD, BUT IT TURNED OUT TO BE AN
ORGANIZED ATTACK BY MILITANTS
TIED TO AL QAEDA.
>> OUR GOAL IN THIS
INVESTIGATION IS TO GET ANSWERS.
>> Brown: FROM THE START,
REPUBLICANS CHARGED COVER-UP,
AND THE ADMINISTRATION DENIED
IT.
THEN CAME THE "60 MINUTES"
BROADCAST THAT FOCUSED ON
WARNINGS THAT WENT UNHEEDED AND
THE SEQUENCE OF EVENTS THAT
NIGHT.
FORMER SECURITY CONTRACTOR DYLAN
DAVIES, USING THE PSEUDONYM
"MORGAN JONES," TOLD LOGAN HE
WAS THERE, FIGHTING THE
ATTACKERS.
>> ONE GUY SAW ME.
HE JUST SHOUTED.
I COULDN'T BELIEVE THAT HE'D
SEEN ME BECAUSE IT WAS SO DARK.
HE STARTED WALKING TOWARDS ME.
>> AND AS HE WAS COMING CLOSER?
>> AS I GOT CLOSER, I JUST HIT
HIM WITH THE BUTT OF THE RIFLE
THEIN FACE.
>> AND?
>> OH, HE WENT DOWN, YEAH.
>> Brown: BUT WITHIN DAYS, THE
"WASHINGTON POST" REPORTED
THAT DAVIES TOLD HIS EMPLOYER AT
THE TIME THAT HE HADN'T BEEN AT
THE COMPOUND THE NIGHT OF THE
ATTACK, AND THE "NEW YORK TIMES"
LATER REPORTED DAVIES HAD TOLD
THE F.B.I. THE SAME THING.
CBS AND LOGAN INITIALLY DEFENDED
THE STORY, BUT, ON SUNDAY, THEY
APOLOGIZED.
>> ON THURSDAY NIGHT, WHEN WE
DISCOVERED THE ACCOUNT HE GAVE
THE F.B.I. WAS DIFFERENT THAN
WHAT HE TOLD US, WE REALIZED WE
HAD BEEN MISLED, AND IT WAS A
MISTAKE TO INCLUDE HIM IN OUR
REPORT.
FOR THAT, WE ARE VERY SORRY.
>> Brown: THE INITIAL REPORT
ALSO NEVER MENTIONED THAT
DAVIES' BOOK ON BENGHAZI WAS
PUBLISHED BY AN IMPRINT OF SIMON
& SCHUSTER, A SUBSIDIARY OF CBS.
THE PUBLISHER HAS NOW WITHDRAWN
THE BOOK.
AND JOINING ME TO DISCUSS THE
MANY CRITICISMS SURROUNDING THE
REPORTING AND THE RESPONSE ARE:
KELLY McBRIDE, A MEDIA ETHICIST
FROM THE POYNTER INSTITUTE; AND
TOM ROSENSTIEL, EXECUTIVE
DIRECTOR OF THE AMERICAN PRESS
INSTITUTE.
THEY ARE CO-AUTHORS OF "THE NEW
ETHICS OF JOURNALISM: PRINCIPLES
FOR THE 21st CENTURY," A
COLLECTION OF ESSAYS OUT THIS
SUMMER.
KELLY MCBRIDE LET ME START WITH
YOU.
PUTTING IT ALTOGETHER, WHERE DID
CBS REPORT GO WRONG IN YOUR
ESTIMATION?
WHAT WERE THE MAIN CRITICISMS?
>> SO THEY DIDN'T -- THERE WAS A
REPORT TO HIS EMPLOYER THAT
SUGGESTED THAT THERE WAS%hZ/ SOE
DISCUP SEE ABOUT HIS WHEREABOUTS
ON THAT NIGHT OF THE ATTACK.
AND THEY DIDN'T RESOLVE THOSE
DISCREPANCIES TO ANY
SATISFACTION.
>> Brown:  TOM WHAT WOULD YOU
ADD.
>> WELL THERE WERE DOUBTS ABOUT
THIS.
THERE WERE CONFLICTING DOCUMENTS
ABOUT THIS.
AND YOU DON'T KNOW WHAT
PRESSURES ARE INSIDE A COMPANY
WHEN ONE SIDE OF THE COMPANY IS
PUBLISHING THE BOOK.
YOU'VE GOT TO BE EXTRA VIGILANT
UNDER THOSE CIRCUMSTANCES SO YOU
DON'T PUT YOURSELF IN THIS KIND
OF SITUATION.
>> Brown:  EXPLAIN THAT A
LITTLE BIT, THE BOOK PART OF IT.
>> SIMON & SCHUSTER AND CBS
OWNED BY THE SAME COMPANY, WHEN
YOU'RE IN THAT SITUATION, IT'S
DIFFICULT BECAUSE YOU CAN'T NOT
ACCEPT BOOKS THAT YOUR PARENT
COMPANY IS PUBLISHING BUT YOU
GOT TO BE EXTRA CAREFUL BECAUSE
YOU KNOW THAT SOMEONE'S GOING TO
RAISE THE POSSIBILITY THAT
THERE'S A CONNECK THAT YOU'RE
PROMOTING THIS BOOK FOR
COMMERCIAL REASONS.
SO YOUR ALARM SYSTEM HAS TO BE
EVEN HIGHER.
ALSO, THIS IS A STORY THAT YOU
KNOW IS GOING TO BE POLITICIZED,
THEY WILL SEIZE ON THIS AND THEN
YOU'VE GOT TO MIND YOUR P'S AND
Q'S PARTICULARLY WELL.
>> Brown:  KELLY MCBRIDE TO
PICK UP ON THOSE THINGS THE BOOK
AND LACK OF VETTING, DO WE KNOW
OR WHAT DO WE KNOW A FEW DAYS
AFTER THE FACT HERE ABOUT HOW IT
COULD HAVE HAPPENED?
>> THAT'S WHAT WE DON'T KNOW
ANYTHING ABOUT.
CBS REALLY HASN'T SAID
SPECIFICALLY WHAT WENT WRONG.
IS IT BECAUSE SIMON & SCHUSTER
IS PART OF THE SAME COMPANY, DID
THEY ASSUME THAT SIMON &
SCHUSTER HAD VETTED THIS AUTHOR
AND THEREFORE THEY DIDN'T NEED
TO DO THE VETTING.
THAT WOULD BE A MISTAKE BUT IT'S
CONCEIVABLE.
DOES THEY NOT DO THE VETTING
BECAUSE THEY REALLY BELIEVED
THAT THIS STORY WAS TRUE, THAT
IT WAS TOO GOOD TO BE TRUE.
AND SO THEY JUST DIDN'T DO THE
VETTING BECAUSE THEY REALLY
WANTED IT TO BE TRUE.
OR DID THEY TRY AND VET IT, COME
UP WITH ENOUGH REASSURANCE THAT
THEY FELT LIKE THIS STORY WAS
OKAY, AND THEN GET CAUGHT WITH
THEIR FACTS NOT STRAIGHT AFTER
PUBLICATION.
>> Brown:  JUST TO STAY WITH
YOU, WHAT WOULD YOU ADD OR HOW
CONCERNED ARE YOU ABOUT THE
POTENTIAL FOR CONFLICT WHEN
YOU'VE GOT THIS REPORTING AND A
BOOK AT THE SAME TIME.
>> WELL OBVIOUSLY THE REPORT WAS
TIMED TO COME OUT WITH THE
PUBLICATION OF THE BOOK.
AND SO YOU KNOW THAT THIS SOURCE
HAS A MOTIVATION TO MAKE THE
STORY AS SENSATIONAL AS
POSSIBLE.
HE WANTS TO SELL BOOKS.
I WOULD THINK THAT THAT ALONE
WOULD INSPIRE YOU A AS A
PRODUCER OR REPORTER TO MAKE
SURE THAT ANY DISCREPANCIES WERE
RESOLVED.
>> Brown:  THERE'S BEEN THE
RESPONSE UP TO THE REPORT AND
THEN WHAT HAPPENED AFTER THINGS
STARTED TO COME OUT.
>> NOW CBS DESERVES CREDIT FOR
ADMITTING THEY MADE A MISTAKE.
THAT'S UNUSUAL IN BROADCAST.
WE DON'T SEE CORRECTIONS ON
TELEVISION IN THE COURSE OF
NORMAL ACTIVITY AND MISTAKES ARE
MADE ALL THE TIME.
BUT THEY CLAIM EVEN IN THEIR OWN
CORRECTION ACKNOWLEDGMENT THAT
THEIR IMIS TO THE TRUTH.
WHAT THE TRUTH MEANS IS CLARITY,
UNDERSTANDING, WHAT DOES THE
PUBLIC NEED TO KNOW.
THEY DIDN'T MAKE CLEAR IN THAT
CORRECTION WHAT THEY HAD DONE
THAT CREATED THE MISIMPRESSION.
WHAT INFORMATION CONVEYED THAT
CONFUSED PEOPLE OR FED
CONSERVATIVE CRITICS OF THIS.
SO ALL YOU KNOW WHAT THE
CORRECTION IS WE DID SOMETHING
WRONG, WE MADE A MISTAKE WE'RE
NOT GOING TO TELL YOU ANYTHING
MORE ABOUT IT.
THEY ALSO DIDN'T ACKNOWLEDGE THE
CONFLICT OF INTEREST WITH THE
BOOK NOR DID THEY ACKNOWLEDGE
THAT IN THE INITIAL.
SO THERE ISN'T REALLY
TRANSPARENCY HERE.
AND THE PROBLEM FOR CBS IS WHEN
YOU MAKE A MISTAKE LIKE THIS,
YOU NEED TO GET OUT IN FRONT OF
IT.
YOU NEED TO BE YOUR HARSHEST
CRITIC OR PEOPLE WILL KEEP
PECKING AWAY AT AWE.
AND THERE WILL BE SEGMENTS LIKE
THIS.
>> Brown:  YOU'RE GIVING SOME
CREDIT FOR THE APOLOGY BUT IT
DIDN'T GO NEARLY FAR ENOUGH.
>> THE IRONY, THE REASON I DON'T
WANT TO POUNCE ON CBS, IT'S NOT
UNUSUAL FOR PEOPLE TO SAY WE'RE
NOT GOING TO ACKNOWLEDGE
ANYTHING AND LET IT JUST GO
AWAY.
ONCE YOU ACKNOWLEDGE THE
MISTAKE, YOU ARE INVITING THE
SCRUTINY.
I DON'T THINK IT'S RIGHT FOR
PEOPLE TO JUST DENOUNCE
ORGANIZATIONS THAT ACKNOWLEDGE
THEY MADE A MISTAKES BECAUSE THE
ACKNOWLEDGMENT IS INADEQUATE.
TOO MANY NEWS ORGANIZATIONS WILL
TRY TO BURY THE MISTAKE GUT IT
OUT AND SAY WE DID THE BEST WE
COULD WITH THE INFORMATION WE
HAD AT THE TIME AND WE'RE NOT
GOING TO ADMIT ANYTHING.
>> Brown:  KELLY MCBRIDE, WHAT
DO YOU THINK ABOUT THE RESPONSE
>>60 MINUTES IS THE GOLD
STANDARD.
I THINK THEY EXPECT MORE.
THEY ARE ACCUSTOMED TO GETTING
GOOD JOURNALISM OUT OF "60
MINUTES."
TO THE EXTENT THAT TOM SAID IT'S
UNUSUAL IN BROADCAST TELEVISION
TO OFFER UP A CORRECTION OR AN
APOLOGY, SURE.
BUT ONCE YOU'VE DONE IT, YES,
YOU NEED TO SAY EXACTLY WHAT
WENT WRONG, AND I THINK YOU ALSO
NEED TO TELL PEOPLE HOW YOU'RE
GOING TO FIX THE PROBLEM.
HOW YOU'RE GOING TO NOT LET
WHATEVER IT WAS WENT WRONG
HAPPEN AGAIN.
>> Brown:  KELLY, THERE HAVE
BEEN CALLS OF COURSE FOR FURTHER
INVESTIGATIONS EITHER INTERNAL
OR INDEPENDENT.
WHAT DO YOU THINK SHOULD HAPPEN?
>> WELL WHETHER THEY DO AN
INTERNAL INVESTIGATION OR AN
INDEPENDENT INVESTIGATION, LIKE
TOM SAID, TRANSPARENCY IS REALLY
IMPORTANT HERE.
YOU HAVE TO TELL THE PUBLIC WHAT
SPECIFICALLY YOU FIND IN YOUR
INVESTIGATION.
WAS IT ONE INDIVIDUAL WHO MAYBE
WASN'T DOING HIS OR HER JOB AT A
CERTAIN POINT IN THE REPORTING
PROCESS.
OR WAS IT ACCUMULATION OF SMALL
ERRORS THAT LED TO THIS ONE BIG
OVERSIGHT THAT YOU DIDN'T VET
YOUR SOURCE.
>> Brown:  TOM IN THE LARGER
PICTURE -- YOU TWO BOTH LIVE IN
THIS WORLD OF MEDIA CRITICISM,
RIGHT.
AN OVERSIGHT.
THIS WORLD HAS CHANGED
FANTASTICALLY IN THE LAST DECADE
OR SO.
>> RIGHT.
AND YOU HAVE AN OLD MEDIA
ORGANIZATION, CBS, 20TH CENTURY
NEWS ORGANIZATION THAT ASPIRES
TO THESE OLD STANDARDS OF
TRUTHFULNESS AND RESPONSIBILITY.
AND THEY'RE CAUGHT HERE BECAUSE
NOW EVERYBODY CAN LOOK AT THEM,
CRITICIZE THEM AND THEY'RE NOT
USED TO THE OPENNESS OF THE NEW
ENVIRONMENT.
SO THEY'VE GOT TO BE MORE OPEN.
THEY'VE GOT TO BE MORE
TRANSPARENT AND THEY'VE GOT --
>> Brown:  THE WORLD THEY'RE
LIVING IN --
>> THEY DO TODAY.
THE OTHER PROBLEM IS WHAT THEY
OWE US, WHAT THEY OWE THE PUBLIC
IS ASSURANCES THAT THERE ISN'T
SOMETHING IN THEIR PROCESSES
THAT WILL ALLOW THIS TO HAPPEN
AGAIN.
THEY NEED TO REASSURE THE PUBLIC
LOOK WE UNDERSTAND WHAT WE DID
WRONG AND IT'S NOT, AND WE'VE
LEARNED FROM THIS AND IT'S NOT
GOING TO HAPPEN AGAIN.
YOU CAN TRUST US IN THE FUTURE.
AND THAT'S THE TEST THAT THEY
HAVEN'T MET YET.
>> Brown:  TOM ROSENSTIEL,
KELLY MCBRIDE, THANK YOU BOTH
VERY MUCH.
>> YOU'RE WELCOME.
>> Ifill: DICK CHENEY WAS 37
YEARS OLD WHEN HE SUFFERED HIS
FIRST HEART ATTACK.
BY THE TIME HE WAS SWORN IN AS
VICE PRESIDENT IN 2001, HE'D
SURVIVED FOUR.
AND THERE WOULD BE ONE MORE.
HE'S RECEIVED STENTS,
DEFIBRILLATORS, AN EXTERNAL
BATTERY-POWERED HEART PUMP, A
QUADRUPLE BYPASS, AND, NOW, AT
THEGE O AF 72, HE IS LIVING WITH
A TRANSPLANTED HEART.
THE FORMER VICE PRESIDENT AND
HIS LONGTIME CARDIOLOGIST, DR.
JONATHAN REINER, HAVE WRITTEN A
BOOK ABOUT THIS JOURNEY, "HEART:
AN AMERICAN MEDICAL YSSEODY."
I SPOKE WITH HIM EARLIER TODAY.
VICE PRESIDENT CHENEY, WELCOME
BACK TO THE NEWSHOUR.
>> IT'S GOOD TO BE BACK.
>> IN READING YOUR BOOK IT
BECOMES CLEAR IN MANY POINTS
DURING YOUR PUBLIC LIFE AND YOUR
PRIVATE LIFE YOU'VE COME MUCH
CLOSER TO DEATH THAN ANYONE.
>> WELL, I WAS CERTAINLY SICK
FOR A LONG PERIOD OF TIME.
BUT THAT'S ONE OF THE THING THAT
WE HOPE TO ACHIEVE IN THE BOOK,
I WAS ABLE TO LIVE WITH CHRONIC
HEART DISEASE FOR 35 YEARS AND
REACTED DURING A NORMAL AND SOME
WOULD SAY ABNORMAL CAREER AND
ABLE TO FUNCTION AT A HIGH LEVEL
INMIGHT OF THE DISEASE AND
THAT'S BECAUSE OF ALL THE
DEVELOPMENTS THAT ARE NOW
AVAILABLE IN TERMS OF MEDICINE
THAT MADE THAT POSSIBLE.
>> Ifill:  YOU KNEW HOWEVER
HOW SERIOUS IT WAS CERTAINLY BY
THE TIME YOU BECAME VICE
PRESIDENT ENOUGH THAT YOU
THOUGHT THAT IT WAS PRUDENT TO
WRITE A LETTER OF RESIGNATION IN
ADVANCE.
>> YES, I DID.
>> Ifill:  WHY.
>> ONE OF THE FIRST THINGS I DID
WHEN I TOOK OVER AS VICE
PRESIDENT I ASKED DAVE ADDINGTON
MY ATTORNEY WHO HAD BEEN WITH ME
A LONG TIME, TO, I SAID I WANT
ABSOLUTELY TO KNOW EVERYTHING
THERE IS TO KNOW ABOUT THE
TRANSITION.
IF SOMETHING HAPPENS TO THE
PRESIDENT, I DON'T WANT TO BE
SURPRISED.
I WANT TO HAVE GIVEN IT A LOT OF
THOUGHT IN ADVANCE, REVIEW THE
CONSTITUTION, REVIEW THE
SUBSTITUTES AND SO FORTH.
HE CAME BACK AND HIGHLIGHTED A
PROBLEM WHICH I NEVER REALLY
THOUGHT OF WHICH IS THERE'S
PROVISION FOR REMOVING A
PRESIDENT WHO IS INCAPACITATED.
THE VICE PRESIDENT BY CABINET
AND MAJOR VOTE THEY COULD
TEMPORARILY MAKE THE VICE
PRESIDENT THE PRESIDENT.
BUT THERE'S NO WAY TO DEAL WITH
AN  INCAPACITATED VICE PRESIDEN.
YOU COULD MAKE IT DIFFICULT.
IT'S IN THE 25TH AMENDMENT.
GIVEN MY HISTORY OF HEART
DISEASE AND THE POSSIBILITY OF
HEART DISEASE OR STROKE MAYBE
SOMETHING SUCH THAT HAPPENED TO
WOODROW WILSON 17 MONTHS BEFORE
THE END OF HIS TERM, THAT I
DIDN'T WANT TO HAVE THAT BE A
PROBLEM IN MY CASE.
WE CAME UP WITH THE IDEA THAT I
WOULD FORMALLY SIGN A LETTER OF
RESIGNATION THAT DAVID  DAVID WD
HOLD IT AND KEEP IT AND IF
CIRCUMSTANCES AROSE WHERE IT WAS
APPROPRIATE HE WOULD PRESENT IT
TO THE PRESIDENT AND THE
PRESIDENT WOULD DECIDE WHETHER
OR NOT TO SUBMIT IT TO THE
SECRETARY.
>> Ifill:  THE PRESIDENT WAS
THE ONLY OTHER PERSON WHO KNEW
THIS LETTER EXISTED.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
>> Ifill:  HOW LONG DID Y
KNOW YOU HAD SERIOUS HEART
DISEASE OVER THE SPAN OF YOUR
LIFE.
>> I FIRST LEARNED OF IT MY
FIRST HEART ATTACK WHEN I WAS 37
YEARS OLD.
>> Ifill:  WAS THAT FAMILY
HISTORY.
>> MY GRANDFATHER DIED AT HARD
DISEASE.
ON DAD'S SIDE OF THE FAMILY I
WAS ALWAYS ASKED ABOUT FAMILY
HISTORY AND ALWAYS SAID NO.
NO INDICATION.
I FOUND OUT AFTER MY THIRD HEART
ATTACK GETTING READY TO THIS GO
BYPASS, MOM GOT HIM TO GO SEE
THE DOCTORS ONE DAY.
THEY TOOK ONE LOOK AT HIM AND
DID AN EMERGENCY SURGERY OF A
SIX-WAY BYPASS AND SAW EVIDENCE
OF TWO PRIOR HEART ATTACKS HE
NEVER TOLD ANYBODY ABOUT.
I HAD STRONG FAMILY HISTORY ON
BOTH SIDES BUT FOR TEN YEARS I
DIDN'T KNOW ABOUT IT WITH DAD
BECAUSE HE DIDN'T TALK ABOUT IT.
>> Ifill:  YET EVERY TIME YOU
HAD ONE OF THESE EPISODES YOUR
RESPONSE WAS JUST TO STEP ON THE
GAS.
YOU NEVER SAID WELL MAYBE I
WON'T RUN FOR CONGRESS OR MAYBE
I WON'T BE VICE PRESIDENT.
>> I GOT A PIECE OF ADVICE WHEN
I HAD THAT VERY FIRST ONE BACK
IN 1978 I WAS IN THE MIDDLE OF
MY FIRST CAMPAIGN FOR CONGRESS.
I ASKED THE DOCTOR STILL A GOOD
FRIEND TO THIS DAY, AN
INTERNIST.
I SAID DOES THIS MEAN I HAVE TO
GIVE UP MY CAMPAIGN.
AND HE SAID HARD WORK NEVER
KILLED ANYBODY.
>> Ifill:  ISN'T THAT WHAT YOU
WANTED TO HEAR.
>> THAT'S WHAT I WANTED TO  TAKE
AWAY FROM THE CONVERSATION.
BUT HE SAID STRESS, IF YOU FEEL
UP TO IT GO FOR IT.
>> Ifill:  AS A YOUNG MAN YOU
SAID YOU GOT INSURANCE EVEN
THOUGH YOU DIDN'T FEEL LIKE YOU
WERE A SICK PERSON AT ALL AND
THAT ALLOWED YOU TO BE AWE ABLE
TO AFORETHE CARE YOU RECEIVED.
>> I GOT IT WHEN I WENT TO WORK
FOR THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT I
SIGNED UP FOR THE REGULAR BLUE
CROSS BLUE SHIELD POLICY
AVAILABLE FOR ALL FEDERAL
EMPLOYEES.
BY THE TIME I DID THAT, I WAS
MARRIED AND HAD KIDS AND A
FAMILY, I HAD OBLIGATIONS AND AN
INSURANCE POLICY WAS THE RIGHT
THING TO DO.
>> Ifill:  HAD YOU WATCHED
THIS DEBATE WE'RE HAVING NOW
ABOUT HEALTHCARE AND INSURANCE
AND MANDATED INSURANCE AROUND
THE COUNTRY, DO YOU EVER LOOK AT
IT THROUGH THE EXPERIENCE THAT
YOU HAD GROWING UP AS SOMEONE
WHO NEEDED IT TURNS OUT EXTREME
MEDICAL CARE.
>> WHEN THE FIRST TIME PROBABLY
I WAS EVER IN THE HOSPITAL I
DIDN'T HAVE INSURANCE.
I WAS 23 YEARS OLD U SHORTLY
BEFORE LINDA AND I GOT MARRIED.
I GOT SICK, HOSPITALIZED, HAD NO
INSURANCE AND THE MONEY I SAVED
FOR OUR  HONEYMOON WENT TO PAY
MEDICAL BILLS SO I NEEDED THE
INSURANCE WHEN I NEEDED
HEALTHCARE.
IN HE ARE CENT YEARS, IN TERMS
OF HOW DO WE PROVIDE QUALITY
CARE TO THE MAXIMUM NUMBER OF
PEOPLE.
IT'S NOT AN EASY PROBLEM TO
SOLVE YOU CAN TELL FROM THE
CURRENT DEBATE.
WHAT I WORRY IN THE RUSH TO
OBAMACARE AND THE PROBLEMS THAT
ARE ARISING WITH THE PROGRAM AND
THE WEBSITE AND SO FORTH, THAT
THERE'S A REAL DANGER HERE THAT
WILL DO SERIOUS DAMAGE TO WHAT
IS THE WORLD'S BEST HEALTHCARE
SYSTEM AND I BELIEVE IT IS IN
SAMPLE THINGS SUCH AS THE DEVICE
TAX THERE'S PROVISION IN THE NEW
BILL NEW LAW FOR MEDICAL DEVICES
TO BE TAXED.
THAT RAISES SERIOUS QUESTIONS
ABOUT THE ABILITY TO CONTINUE
THE PACE OF INNOVATION AND TO
SAVE MY LIFE WITH STENTS AND
IMPLANTABLE STIMULATORS AND
ELECTRICAL DEVICES.
THOSE THINGS REALLY CAME FROM
THE PRIVATE SECTOR PEOPLE TAKING
A CHANCE, ENTREPRENEURS AND THEY
BEGAN TO TAX THAT TO GENERATE
REVENUE FOR THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT.
YOU WORRY ABOUT WHAT IT DOES TO
THAT MECHANISM THAT'S OBVIOUSLY
REDUCED THE INCIDENCE OF
DEFINITE FROM HEART DISEASE IN
THIS COUNTRY BY 50%.
>> Ifill:  IS THAT TAX REMOVED
DO YOU THINK THAT WOULD BE A
REASONABLE SOLUTION TO THE
STANDOFF WE'RE HAVING TO
OBAMACARE.
>> NO IT'S AN IMPORTANT ISSUE IT
NEEDS TO BE ADDRESSED BUT I
DON'T THINK IT SOLVES IS BIGGER
PROBLEM.
>> Ifill:  WHAT'S THE BIGGER
>> THE BIGGER PROBLEM IS THAT
PROBLEM.
THE COMPLEXITY OF THE NEW
>> THE BIGGER PROBLEM IS THAT
PROGRAM OF OBAMACARE GENERALLY,
THE COMPLEXITY OF THE NEW
THE DIFFICULTIES THAT ARE
PROGRAM OF OBAMACARE GENERALLY,
INVOLVED THE PRESIDENT HAVING
THE DIFFICULTIES THAT ARE
SAID REPEATEDLY THAT YOU CAN
INVOLVED THE PRESIDENT HAVING
KEEP YOUR INSURANCE IF YOU WANT
SAID REPEATEDLY THAT YOU CAN
IT, TURNS OUT NOT TO HAVE BEEN
KEEP YOUR INSURANCE IF YOU WANT
TRUE BUT THAT APPARENTLY WAS
IT, TURNS OUT NOT TO HAVE BEEN
TRUE FROM THE GET-GO.
TRUE BUT THAT APPARENTLY WAS
AND I WONDER WHAT OTHER
TRUE FROM THE GET-GO.
ADDITIONAL SURPRISES ARE IN
AND I WONDER WHAT OTHER
THERE THAT THEY ARE ONLY NOW
ADDITIONAL SURPRISES ARE IN
BEING SORTED OUT IN TERMS OF HOW
THERE THAT THEY ARE ONLY NOW
WE'RE GOING TO ACCOMMODATE ALL
BEING SORTED OUT IN TERMS OF HOW
THESE PEOPLE.
WE'RE GOING TO ACCOMMODATE ALL
FOR EXAMPLE IT'S ONLY IF WE GET
THESE PEOPLE.
HEALTH FOR THE YOUNGSTERS TO
FOR EXAMPLE IT'S ONLY IF WE GET
SIGN UP, PEOPLE IN THEIR 20'S,
HEALTH FOR THE YOUNGSTERS TO
WHERE WE HAVE THE REVENUE TO BE
SIGN UP, PEOPLE IN THEIR 20'S,
ABLE TO FUND THE BENEFITS THAT
WHERE WE HAVE THE REVENUE TO BE
HAVE BEEN PROMISED TO THE
ABLE TO FUND THE BENEFITS THAT
ELDERLY AND SICK.
HAVE BEEN PROMISED TO THE
THAT STRIKES ME AS A POTENTIAL
ELDERLY AND SICK.
PROBLEM OF MAJOR SIGNIFICANCE.
THAT STRIKES ME AS A POTENTIAL
>> Ifill:  SOMEONE WHO HAS
PROBLEM OF MAJOR SIGNIFICANCE.
BENEFITED FROM EXCELLENT CARE,
>> Ifill:  SOMEONE WHO HAS
DO YOU THINK THAT YOU WOULD HAVE
BENEFITED FROM EXCELLENT CARE,
SURVIVED AS WELL AS YOU APPEAR
DO YOU THINK THAT YOU WOULD HAVE
TO BE DOING TODAY HAD YOU NOT
SURVIVED AS WELL AS YOU APPEAR
BEEN THE VICE PRESIDENT, SOMEONE
TO BE DOING TODAY HAD YOU NOT
WITH ACCESS TO THAT KIND OF
BEEN THE VICE PRESIDENT, SOMEONE
CARE.
WITH ACCESS TO THAT KIND OF
>> WELL THE CARE I HAD BASICALLY
CARE.
MOST OF THE TIME AS I SAY IT WAS
>> WELL THE CARE I HAD BASICALLY
BLUE CROSS BLUE SHIELD PAID THE
MOST OF THE TIME AS I SAY IT WAS
BILLS FOR THAT WHOLE PERIOD.
BLUE CROSS BLUE SHIELD PAID THE
I WOULD SAY WHEN I GOT TO BE
BILLS FOR THAT WHOLE PERIOD.
SECRETARY OF DEFENSE, SHORTLY
I WOULD SAY WHEN I GOT TO BE
AFTER I HAD BYPASS SURGERY AND
SECRETARY OF DEFENSE, SHORTLY
CHOLESTEROL LOWERING DRUGS CAME
AFTER I HAD BYPASS SURGERY AND
N I HAD BASICALLY A 12-YEAR
CHOLESTEROL LOWERING DRUGS CAME
PERIOD WHERE I WAS FREE OF ANY
N I HAD BASICALLY A 12-YEAR
DIFFICULTIES.
PERIOD WHERE I WAS FREE OF ANY
WHEN I GOT TO THE WHITEHOUSE,
DIFFICULTIES.
ARE THERE'S AN ADVANTAGE
WHEN I GOT TO THE WHITEHOUSE,
OBVIOUSLY IN HAVING A PHYSICIAN
ARE THERE'S AN ADVANTAGE
ASSIGNED TO YOU 24 HOURS A DAY
OBVIOUSLY IN HAVING A PHYSICIAN
WHICH I DID IN PART BECAUSE OF
ASSIGNED TO YOU 24 HOURS A DAY
MY PAST HEALTH HISTORY.
WHICH I DID IN PART BECAUSE OF
>> WHAT ABOUT PEOPLE WITH YOUR
MY PAST HEALTH HISTORY.
HEALTH PROFILE WHO DON'T HAVE
>> WHAT ABOUT PEOPLE WITH YOUR
THOSE KINDS OF ADVANTAGES?
HEALTH PROFILE WHO DON'T HAVE
>> WELL, THE CARE I GOT IN TERMS
THOSE KINDS OF ADVANTAGES?
OF THE PROCEDURES AND.
>> WELL, THE CARE I GOT IN TERMS
MEDICATIONS AND SO FORTH IS
OF THE PROCEDURES AND.
AVAILABLE TO ANYBODY WHO IS IN
MEDICATIONS AND SO FORTH IS
THE SYSTEM.
AVAILABLE TO ANYBODY WHO IS IN
SO I DIDN'T GET ANY
THE SYSTEM.
EXTRAORDINARY THERE.
SO I DIDN'T GET ANY
WHAT HAPPENED TO ME, BECAUSE AS
EXTRAORDINARY THERE.
VICE PRESIDENT OBVIOUSLY, THE
WHAT HAPPENED TO ME, BECAUSE AS
COUNTRY HAS AN INTEREST IN THE
VICE PRESIDENT OBVIOUSLY, THE
HEALTH AND CAPABILITY OF THE
COUNTRY HAS AN INTEREST IN THE
PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT
HEALTH AND CAPABILITY OF THE
THAT'S WHY THERE'S A THING
PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT
CALLED THE WHITEHOUSE MEDICAL
THAT'S WHY THERE'S A THING
UNIT JUST LIKE SECRET SERVICE
CALLED THE WHITEHOUSE MEDICAL
PROTECTION.
UNIT JUST LIKE SECRET SERVICE
IT'S PARTLY THAT GOES ALONG WITH
PROTECTION.
THE JOB BUT IT'S NOT A PERK.
IT'S PARTLY THAT GOES ALONG WITH
IT'S SOMETHING THE COUNTRY HAS
THE JOB BUT IT'S NOT A PERK.
AN INTEREST TO SEEING THE
IT'S SOMETHING THE COUNTRY HAS
PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT AS
AN INTEREST TO SEEING THE
HEALTHY AS POSSIBLE.
PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT AS
>> Ifill:  THE NAME OF THE
HEALTHY AS POSSIBLE.
BOOK IS HEART A MEDICAL ODYSSEY
>> Ifill:  THE NAME OF THE
BY FORMER VICE PRESIDENT DICK
BOOK IS HEART A MEDICAL ODYSSEY
CHENEY.
BY FORMER VICE PRESIDENT DICK
THANK YOU FOR SHARING WITH US.
CHENEY.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU FOR SHARING WITH US.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
>> THANK YOU.
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
TYPHOON SURVIVORS IN THE
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
PHILIPPINES GREW EVER MORE
TYPHOON SURVIVORS IN THE
DESPERATE EVEN AS THE GOVERNMENT
PHILIPPINES GREW EVER MORE
SAID THE DEATH TOLL MAY BE MUCH
DESPERATE EVEN AS THE GOVERNMENT
LOWER THAN FIRST FEARED.
SAID THE DEATH TOLL MAY BE MUCH
THE FIRST NEW HEART GUIDELINES
LOWER THAN FIRST FEARED.
IN A DECADE RECOMMENDED THAT
THE FIRST NEW HEART GUIDELINES
ONE-THIRD OF ALL ADULTS
IN A DECADE RECOMMENDED THAT
CONSIDER TAKING STATINS TO CUT
ONE-THIRD OF ALL ADULTS
CHOLESTEROL.
CONSIDER TAKING STATINS TO CUT
THAT'S DOUBLE THE CURRENT
CHOLESTEROL.
NUMBER.
THAT'S DOUBLE THE CURRENT
AND FORMER PRESIDENT CLINTON
NUMBER.
URGED PRESIDENT OBAMA TO KEEP
AND FORMER PRESIDENT CLINTON
HIS PROMISE THAT AMERICANS CAN
URGED PRESIDENT OBAMA TO KEEP
KEEP EXISTING HEALTH INSURANCE,
HIS PROMISE THAT AMERICANS CAN
EVEN IF IT MEANS CHANGING THE
KEEP EXISTING HEALTH INSURANCE,
NEW HEALTH CARE LAW.
EVEN IF IT MEANS CHANGING THE
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
NEW HEALTH CARE LAW.
ONLINE RIGHT NOW, WITH SEVERAL
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF
ONLINE RIGHT NOW, WITH SEVERAL
DISPLACED BY TYPHOON HAIYAN,
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF
REACHING LOVED ONES IN THE
DISPLACED BY TYPHOON HAIYAN,
PHILIPPINES HAS BEEN DIFFICULT.
REACHING LOVED ONES IN THE
WE PUT TOGETHER A RESOURCE GUIDE
PHILIPPINES HAS BEEN DIFFICULT.
ON CONTACTING MISSING RELATIVES
WE PUT TOGETHER A RESOURCE GUIDE
OVERSEAS.
ON CONTACTING MISSING RELATIVES
FIND THAT LIST ON OUR HOMEPAGE.
OVERSEAS.
PLUS, WANT TO CONQUER YOUR JOB
FIND THAT LIST ON OUR HOMEPAGE.
INTERVIEW BUTTERFLIES?
PLUS, WANT TO CONQUER YOUR JOB
WE HAVE SOME TIPS ON "MAKING
INTERVIEW BUTTERFLIES?
SENSE."
WE HAVE SOME TIPS ON "MAKING
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SENSE."
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
ON WEDNESDAY, THE SUPREME COURT
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
HEARS ARGUMENTS OVER FREE
ON WEDNESDAY, THE SUPREME COURT
SPEECH, AND THE TECHNOLOGY CHIEF
HEARS ARGUMENTS OVER FREE
BEHIND healthcare.gov TAKES
SPEECH, AND THE TECHNOLOGY CHIEF
QUESTIONS ON CAPITOL HILL.
BEHIND healthcare.gov TAKES
I'M GWEN IFILL.
QUESTIONS ON CAPITOL HILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
I'M GWEN IFILL.
WOODRUFF.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
WOODRUFF.
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NIGHT.